32/RLN-V1: Move to Draft (#40)
vacp2p/rfc-index: vac/32/rln-v1.md

RLN guarantees a messaging rate is enforced cryptographically while preserving the anonymity of the message owners.
A wide range of applications can benefit from RLN and provide desirable security features.
For example, 
an e-voting system can integrate RLN to contain the voting rate while protecting the voters-vote unlinkability.
Another use case is to protect an anonymous messaging system against DDoS and 

> spam attacks by containing messaging rate of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spam attacks by constraining messaging rate of users.
```

This latter use case is explained in [17/WAKU2-RLN-RELAY RFC](../../waku/standards/core/17/rln-relay.md).

## Wire Format Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in [2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

### Flow

The users participate in the protocol by first registering to an application-defined group referred by the _membership group_.
Registration to the group is mandatory for signaling in the application.
After registration, group members can generate a zero-knowledge proof of membership for their signals and 
can participate in the application.
Usually, the membership requires a financial or 

> social stake which is beneficial for the prevention of Sybil attacks and double-signaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
social stake which is beneficial for the prevention of inclusion of Sybils within the _membership group_.
```

2. Signaling
3. Verification and slashing

### Registration

Depending on the application requirements, the registration can be implemented in different ways, for example:
- centralized registrations, by using a central server
- decentralized registrations, by using a smart contract

> What is important is that the users' identity commitments 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tthe users' identity commitments 
```

> (explained in section [User Identity](#user-identity)) are stored in a Merkle tree,

Reviewer: can be in the same line as prev?

Author: Im not sure what you mean.

and the users can obtain a Merkle proof proving that they are part of the group.

Also depending on the application requirements,
usually a financial or social stake is introduced.
An example for financial stake is: 

For each registration a certain amount of ETH is required.

> An example for social stake is using InterRep as a registry -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example for social stake is using Interep as a registry -
```

Reviewer: and maybe a link: https://interep.link/

users need to prove that they have a highly reputable social media account.

#### Implementation notes

##### User identity

The user's identity is composed of:

```js
{
    identity_secret: [identity_nullifier, identity_trapdoor],
    identity_secret_hash: poseidonHash(identity_secret),
    identity_commitment: poseidonHash([identity_secret_hash])
}

```

> For registration, the user SHOULD submit their `identity_commitment` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For registration, the user MUST submit their `identity_commitment` 
```

(along with any additional registration requirements) to the registry.
Upon registration, they SHOULD receive `leaf_index` value which represents their position in the Merkle tree.
Receiving a `leaf_index` is not a hard requirement and is application specific.
The other way around is the users calculating the `leaf_index` themselves upon successful registration.

### Signaling

After registration,
the users can participate in the application by sending signals to the other participants in a decentralised manner or 
to a centralised server.
Along with their signal,
they MUST generate a ZK-Proof by using the circuit with the specification described above.

For generating a proof,
the users need to obtain the required parameters or compute them themselves,
depending on the application implementation and client libraries supported by the application.

> For example, the users MAY store the membership Merkle tree on their end and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, 
the users MAY store the membership Merkle tree on their end and
```

| **External nullifier**    | Poseidon hash of [Epoch, RLN Identifier]. An identifier that groups signals and can be thought of as a voting booth.  |
| **Internal nullifier**    | Poseidon hash of [A1]. This field ensures that a user can send only one valid signal per external nullifier without risking being slashed. Public input of the circuit.   |

#### ZK Circuits specification

Anonymous signaling with a controlled rate limit is enabled by proving that the user is part of a group which has high barriers to entry (form of stake) and
enabling secret reveal if more than 1 unique signal is produced per external nullifier.

> The membership part is implemented using membership [Merkle trees](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) and Merkle proofs, while the secret reveal part is enabled by using the Shamir's Secret Sharing scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The membership part is implemented using membership [Merkle trees](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) and Merkle proofs, 
while the secret reveal part is enabled by using the Shamir's Secret Sharing scheme.
```

> Essentially the protocol requires the users to generate zero-knowledge proof to be able to send signals and 

Reviewer: there are usages of `zero-knowledge proof` and `zk-proof` interchangeably, either we should mention this up top, or use one throughout

Author: I replaced `zk-proof` with `zero-knowledge proof` within the spec. Expect for `zk_proof` value, I'm not sure if this should be changed.
